Create ways-of-the-force.md (#100)
jeffhuyghebaert/pax-republica: content/theme/force/ways-of-the-force.md

---
title: "The Ways of the Force"
date: 2020-12-05
draft: false
---
The Force represents one of the greatest sources of power in the galaxy; however, requires the will of a Force-sensitive being to effectively wield it, as technology is not
a viable approach. To those with the appropriate sensitivity, it can be applied in a seemingly infinite variety of different ways. Individuals who are strong in the Force are 
able to enhance their own abilities, understand their environment on a deeper or supernatural level, or even use it to impose their will upon their physical surroundings.

#Learning About the Force

> However, this ability is quite rare. Further, though an individual may manifest sensitivity to the Force at any time, such a talent most be developed, rather than taught as a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This ability is quite rare. Further, though an individual may manifest sensitivity to the Force at any time, such a talent most be developed, rather than taught as a 
```

such as astounding agility and strength, healing from injuries that would have been meant certain death for a normal member of their species, or hibernating through long periods of 
deprivation from basic physical needs.

##Powers of Manipulation
These powers allow Force users to bend the surrounding physical environment to their own will. This allows for supernatural feats such as telekinesis, energy redirection and
projection. Such abilities can also involve the subtle manipulation of the minds of other beings. Those enthralled by raw power have always been particularly attracted to this 
type of Force manipulation.

##Powers of the Mind
Powers of the mind include those that allow an awareness of the greater galaxy around the Force user. To witness events of the past, present, and future through visions achieved
via meditation or other means is among the capabilities imparted by attunement to the Cosmic Force. At their fullest potential, these abilities may even grant the wielder the 
power to orchestrate or influence events according to his or her own desires. 

> ##Lightsabers and the Force

Reviewer: I think a greater discussion about Lightsabers and whether or not they can be wielded by non Force users is warranted, but this is fine for now.

Force sensitivity also allows an individual the ability to effectively wield the lightsaber, the ancient weapon of the Jedi and Sith. Lightsaber  prowess is signature skill
of a successful Force wielder, as it draws upon all three aspects of Force mastery. Only those capable of a supernatural level of finesee and control are able to wield 
a lightsaber’s massless blade without endangering themselves. Furthermore, to be truly effective in combat, they must also have a high caliber of spatial awareness gained 

> through a deep connection to the Force. Furthermore, a lightsaber is difficult at best to construct without the use of the Force, as it requires incredibly fine adjustments to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
through a deep connection to the Force. Furthermore, construction of a lightsaber is exceedingly difficult to  without the use of the Force, as it requires incredibly fine adjustments to 
```
